Add migration reference for global gpt deployment (#33)
Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts: docs/development-guidelines/global-deployment.md

# Global Deployment

This document outlines the migration guidance for transitioning to a global deployment SKU for GPT models in Azure OpenAI, as well as troubleshooting steps for handling resource deletion conflicts.

> ## Migration Guidance

Reviewer: It will be great to add a link to a sample repo or PR, or code snippets under each step

Reviewer 2: I agree. I prefer code snippets since repos could be archived or it may be more confusing in that context.

Author: Added code snippets.

To migrate to a global deployment SKU, follow these steps:

> 1. **Add a Parameter for DeploymentSkuName**: Update your deployment configuration to include a parameter for `DeploymentSkuName`.

Reviewer: better to specify add it to where

Reviewer 2: Yes, please specify which file and add example with code

Reviewer 3: This is how I do it, but it may vary per template:

1) Add a parameter for each model used in the infrastructure to set the sku name, like chatDeploymentSkuName. Use that parameter as the sku input for the OpenAI deployments.
   
   param chatDeploymentSkuName string = ''
   
2) Add a parameter mapping to main.parameters.json or main.bicepparam that maps an azd environment variable to that parameter. This allows developers to customize the sku per azd environment easily. In the parameter mapping, set the default to GlobalStandard.
    
   ````
    "chatDeploymentSkuName": {
      "value": "${CHAT_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_NAME=GlobalStandard}"
    }
   ````

   ```
   param chatDeploymentSkuName = readEnvironmentVariable('CHAT_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_NAME', 'GlobalStandard'))
   ```

4) In the documentation somewhere, provide guidance about how to set the sku back to standard, for developers that need it:
   
   ```shell
   azd env set CHAT_DEPLOYMENT_SKU_NAME Standard
   ```

Author: Updated. Thanks for suggestions.

2. **Default Sku to GlobalStandard**: Set the default value of the `DeploymentSkuName` parameter to `GlobalStandard` when possible. See the [global-standard-model-availability](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models?tabs=python-secure#global-standard-model-availability) for more details.

> 3. **Add Pre-Down Hooks**: Implement pre-down hooks to delete the model if needed. This ensures that the `azd down` process is not blocked and all resources are destroyed as expected. See the [troubleshooting section](#trouble-shooting) for more details.

Reviewer: same, it will be better to be more clear on where to add the hooks, I think some owners may not very clear about azd hooks.

Reviewer 4: I am concerned that we are giving instructions that are meant to help with a temporary workaround for the resource deletion conflict. I would recommend keeping the troubleshooting instructions clearly separated from the steps to migrate to the global deployment sku.

Reviewer 2: I am torn. Is there an ETA for resolution of this issue? Since right now the intention is to migrate all templates that can be migrated, it is important the current workaround for the deletion problem is in place.

Reviewer 4: We can achieve both the workaround and the clarity that it's a workaround. I'll propose a suggested edit for you to review.

Reviewer 2: Thank you, I accepted it.

> 3. **Add Pre-Down Hooks**: Implement pre-down hooks to delete the model if needed. This ensures that the `azd down` process is not blocked and all resources are destroyed as expected. See the [troubleshooting section](#trouble-shooting) for more details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. **Test**: After step number 2, test `azd up` and `azd down` to ensure everything works properly. There is currently a known issue with destroying resources properly in this scenario. If you have this issue, see the [troubleshooting section](#trouble-shooting) for more details on implementing the workaround (pre-down hooks to delete the model if needed. This ensures that the `azd down` process is not blocked and all resources are destroyed as expected.) Adding the pre-down hooks is only recommended until the known issue is resolved.
```

Reviewer 4: @anfibiacreativa
